I can't think of anyone else I know
who's gone from caring so much about
wearables to caring so little about them
but the OnePlus watch 2R is an
interesting one for me for starters it's
pretty affordable on launch promo it's
$200 which is still a lot of money but
when you look at the feature set
available here starting of course with
the extremely impressive battery life
claims there's a lot to care about first
of all it is noticeably lighter in the
hand compared to the previous OnePlus
Watch 2 now this does come with a
downgrade in terms of materials it no
longer has 2 and 1 12d sapphire glass
and it uses an aluminum chassis rather
than a stainless steel one but for the
difference in price and the difference
in weight honestly I'd be kind of
tempted to take it it's got a fairly
strong if not comprehensive sensor Suite
with an acceleration sensor gyroscope
Optical heart rate sensor Optical pulse
oximeter sensor geomagnetic sensor light
sensor and ometric sensor but the really
impressive one that jumps off the page
to me is the dual GPS antennas this
allows it to use both L1 and L5 GPS
frequencies simultaneously allowing
claimed accuracy of just 30 cm and okay
that doesn't matter for what some people
are going to do with a watch which is
check the time presumably but if you're
a runner for example and you like to
track your running routes or your
cycling routes or whatever the case may
be having accurate distance tracking is
incredibly important and using multiple
frequencies doesn't just mean improved
accuracy it can mean improved
consistency of performance as well it's
already more comfortable than the
OnePlus Watch 2 that thing was a chunk
and this one is
still pretty on the chunky side it's
only available in one size large but at
least being lighter I don't feel it
dragging my wrist to nearly the same
degree I haven't mentioned yet what drew
me to the OnePlus Watch 2 in the first
place and that was that they have I
think it's over a 100 different activity
trackers including my personal favorite
physical activity badminton so they
count all the usual stuff like your
heart rate but also count your strokes
and your longest Rally from my
experience it actually worked reasonably
well especially considering that I wear
my watch on my offand so it doesn't have
the benefit of knowing when I'm swinging
my arm really hard but I lost it
which is actually why I stopped using it
I traveled and I I left it somewhere
that was my bad I have a little bit of
feedback still left over from the
OnePlus Watch 2 the charger doesn't stay
magnetically attached that well so let's
see if they've improved that with the 2R
yeah that could be better straight off
the face it's not too bad it grabs
pretty good but where I really ran into
trouble was you got your wall wart right
which unfortunately is not provided then
you got your cable and if there's any
see that torsional strain on it it it
comes off pretty easily so you just got
to watch out for that it supports 7 and
1/2 watt fast charging though which is
kind of wild because it means along with
some of their more efficiency-minded
modes you can charge up for a day's
worth of use and they claim about 10
minutes now I was having a conversation
with someone recently who charges their
watch at their desk at work and I was
like why would you do that just charge
it on your night stand at night and they
were like well I like to use it for
sleep tracking so for people like that
having the ability to rapidly charge
during the day could be incredibly
useful is o health the same as OnePlus
Health nope that makes sense good job
OnePlus blah blah blah blah blah Good
Luck me hey there we go we're setting up
oh this is controversial the interface
for the watch has two buttons neither of
which are a turnable crown in any way
whatsoever so if you want to
scroll you got to do it like this
personally I don't think that's that big
of a deal I never really used a crown
for scrolling in the past anyway even
when I had an Apple Watch but your
mileage may vary one of the buttons is
for accessing weos apps the other is a
dedicated Fitness tracking button which
apparently includes swimming I've been
doing a lot of swimming lately yeah it's
been it's been really good I'm really
tired and sore every day why does the
industry have to copy everything Apple
does you know how Apple has that really
cool like QR code that's a floating
Point Cloud so they have one but it
doesn't do anything
it serves no purpose to the pairing
process it's just all Bluetooth pairing
with like a number
code people get after me when I rant
about Apple and like you know them doing
something dumb or anti-consumer and
they're like why are you always going
after Apple so hard it's because
everything Apple does gets cloned by the
entire rest of the industry and in a way
it's kind of a compliment Apple's such a
leader in the space that if I don't go
hard at them I'm implicitly saying it's
okay for everyone else to do it and
there's a tour coming through here so I
guess I'll tell you about our sponsor
vessie their new Courtside classic
brings a vintage tennis look to
everything that you already knew and
loved about vess's shoes like their
lightweight designs and water ready
materials the best summer days are often
unpredictable so your feet need to be
ready for any occasion whether that's a
surprise Lake day chilling on a boat or
one of those long nights in the city so
don't wait snag a pair today and if you
use our Link in the video description
you will automatically get 15% off your
entire order got some tech tips the NFC
antenna is up here apparently it's good
to know and we're all set up that was
actually a pretty painless setup process
all right swipes yep hasn't changed yep
control center hey there you go oh y as
far as tutorials go that wasn't too bad
display looks really nice I mean
obviously nothing compares to an actual
mechanical time piece oh always on
display is not on by default but it is
supported in fact now is a perfect
opportunity to talk through some of
oneplus's claims with respect to battery
life they are saying you can get a 100
flipping hours out of this thing and
they actually came with receipts I can't
say that I agree all of these numbers
are typical I could absolutely see a use
case where you talk through your watch a
lot more than just 5 minutes a day but I
do think it's really cool that if
they're going to make these claims they
do provide a breakdown of what that
usage looks like a more realistic number
is probably the 48 hours that they claim
for heav use now that's not the only way
it can operate in its power saving mode
they claim that it can go up to 12 days
and one of the things that enables this
is that it has two processors a super
low power one and a Snapdragon W5 that
it wakes up to run we OSS apps o
workouts okay so let's have a look at
what they got here fat burn what the
hell is a fat burn Run Okay so it just
guides you on you know where to keep
your heart rate okay that's pretty cool
hey there it is like I said actually
worked reasonably well
as far as I could tell anyway top swing
speed longest rally I don't know how it
would measure your the kilometers of
your swing speed there's certain things
that I just I'd rather have no data than
something that you're making up but
things like how many swings you took um
weree something that seemed pretty
accurate oh they have a couple of
different uh colorways for the watch
green and gray apparently uh yeah the
green one seems nice but gray is also
great I guess tap to wake is off
oh so always on display does not mean
awake well wait how do I wake it oh no I
have to wake it with the button okay I'm
going to turn that back on tap to wake
rais to wake yeah you you be awake I'm
trying to interact with you let's place
a phone call is this going to be volume
for me no oh oh yep one moment please I
okay so I've got you on the line but I'm
in the phone app but I can't even I
can't even see that I'm talking to you
here we go okay I found it volume hey
there we go oh wow that's as loud as it
gets hey hey man I can scream in the
phone if you want me to no no no no it's
not you it's not you it's h my wrist is
vibrating when you talk where the devil
is the speaker on this thing you know
what usable but if you're in a crowded
or loud environment not that usable but
realistically if you have a smartwatch I
assume you have some you know earphones
as well it seems like the most tertiary
of the three mobile devices what I'm
mostly interested in is the
latency not bad very usable my stress is
43 good you know what I'm going to try
it a lot of the features are more geared
towards Runners like it can measure your
stride length and stuff like that
apparently and I'm more swimming and
badminton these days but realistically
the fitness tracking aspects of a watch
are not the ones that appeal the most to
me anyway I want to see how it handles
uh messages not notifications voice to
text that sort of thing so maybe you'll
see an update with longer term use on
the wano it's got 32 gigs of onboard
storage 2 gigs of RAM 500 mah battery oh
and it's ip68 so I can definitely use it
for swimming without busting it
hopefully I you never know when it comes
to saltwater chlorination and all
that subscribe to Short Circuit